well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again my son's got a good teacher they
talk about a lot of things prompts some
interesting questions sometimes today he
looks at me and he's like hey what do
you think of a candidate wise proposal X
I give him a rundown on it and have you
made a video about it no I haven't why I
have some ideological concerns with it
I'm I think that we should be moving
away from government dependence not
creating more government dependence
government dependence so you think it
would work I think it could work so
you're letting your own ideological
biases interfere with you making videos
about something that could work
and change the world go to your room no
but tonight we're going to talk about
you bi universal basic income it is a
central piece of Andrew Yang's campaign
platform
he's marketing it as the freedom
dividend what is it what is ubi exactly
what it sounds like universal basic
income if you are a US citizen and you
are over the age of eighteen you're
getting a thousand bucks a month free
and clear all other social safety nets
except for Social Security and I think
disability are gone but everybody is
getting $1,000 a month this is being
heralded as something new and radical
it's not new it's not radical
the earliest I'm aware of something like
this being proposed was the 1600s Thomas
Paine who was kind of the spiritual and
ideological father to the founding
fathers proposed something in the same
thought
basically at the age of 21 you got some
money and then at the age of 50 so
that's it in the broad-strokes it's
universal welfare welfare for everybody
so now to the nitty-gritty
will it work most studies say yes most
studies say yes
some studies produce some negative
results however keep in mind those
results are being interpreted by the
establishment they're being interpreted
by the moneyed classes what is negative
to them may not be negative to you let
me give you some examples they will
point to one study and say look people
work two less hours hmm when you look at
the study though you find out that it
was new moms who worked less hours new
mothers decided to stay home with their
newborns oh the horror
most developed countries have maternity
leave that is a whole lot longer than
what is mandatory in the United States
I'm not sure that the average American
would see that as a negative another one
that they will point to is that well see
when people lose their job they stay out
of work longer they do because they
don't have to take a job they hate the
people who have us-trained to say things
like I need the hours they're not gonna
like this and they're gonna come out in
droves to fight against it if yang
starts gaining in the polls so when you
hear criticisms of this and just
remember that not all of them are
ideological you need to consider the
source a lot of the criticisms of this
plan are from people who are looking out
for their profit margins more than
anything and want to keep those on the
lower rungs of the socio-economic ladder
on the lower rungs so why does Andrew
yang care because he's a tech bro
that's what it boils down to he's a tech
bro and robots are gonna get us and by
robots I mean automation and by gonna
get us I mean eliminate our jobs
the idea of unemployment rising because
of automation eliminating jobs is not
crazy it's pretty much a certainty it is
going to happen some jobs will be
created by automation but not as many as
our lost ok it's the u.s. so we have to
ask how is this going to be paid for by
getting rid of the other social safety
nets and through a VAT which is a
value-added tax that's a sales tax on
certain goods that gets broken up along
the supply chain so every phase of
production where value gets added
there's a little bit of a tax so from
raw materials to manufacturing to
eventually on the store shelf now at the
end of the day the consumer is going to
eat a lot of that cost they're gonna end
up paying that tax because it's gonna
get rolled into the price for the most
part but it's only on select items
another question that pops up a lot is
well our price is just going to go up
because now there's more money and the
market can bear more mmm probably not
probably not because everybody gets it
everybody at every level of the sopia
the socio-economic ladder gets it people
at different levels spend their money
differently so it's not all going to go
hit one sector and drive up demand what
you do with your money is going to be
very different than what Bill Gates does
with his and he's gonna get the thousand
bucks a month to he's going to take his
and throw it into his scrooge mcduck
e'en vault with the rest of his money
you're probably gonna spend yours you
are probably going to spend yours you
may use it to pursue a dream you may use
it to just pay your bills
you use it to take some time off and
innovate there's a whole lot that could
be done $12,000 a year that's a pretty
big cushion at the lower rungs that's
life-changing that is life-changing it's
enough to have a cushion to bootstrap a
business it is life-changing
so the egalitarian in me loves this
because anytime you can help boost that
that class of people it's a good thing
overall for everybody at the same time I
remember somebody saying something about
what happens once politicians figure out
that they can bribe you with your own
money so I do have some severe
reservations the only sector then I can
see getting hit hard when seeing a big
shift is housing I can see that happen
because there's a whole lot of people
right now that are on that line they
can't really afford it by the bank
standards they can't get that loan
however banks love guaranteed income if
you're getting a thousand bucks a month
they probably approve you for the loan
so I can see a whole bunch of new
homeowners which would drive up property
values initially and then the
construction workers come out go to work
they build new houses hopefully
affordable housing and the prices come
back down that's really the only sector
that I can see getting hit and I don't
see that as a negative
really I'm certain somebody out there is
already typing the word socialism into a
comment section this isn't socialism
this is firmly rooted in capitalism in
fact it requires capitalism to happen if
this is gonna work capitalism has to
occur
but that is definitely gonna be a
talking point of people who are going to
try to criticize this and are there bugs
certainly there going to be things that
arise there's gonna be a lot of
unintended consequences like what's
going to happen a child-support it's all
gonna have to be adjusted there's
there's a lot of things that are gonna
come up because of this but is it a
workable plan yes and this is coming
from somebody who doesn't really support
it from an ideological standpoint now
the other reason I decided to make this
video aside from my son shaming me is
that Andrew yang is getting treated a
lot like a lot of the other candidates
by the DNC they've already decided who
they want to run they've already made
that decision without any input from the
people and their allies in the media are
trying to make that decision happen so
there are a lot of candidates that are
having a hard time getting their message
out and even though I don't really agree
with this plan it is just a plan it's
just an idea it's it's just a thought
it's worth talking about anyway y'all
have a good night